Now, welcome to this section on data races.
Now, this is one of the topics where you should really pay attention to
the details because data races can cost you so much time
during debugging and sometimes they only show
themselves when the software you wrote is already been shipped to the customer.
Actually, that happens quite often with concurrent programs.
Now, data races occur when two concurrent threads are accessing the same memory location,
where at least one of them is modifying the data.
Depending what your system's scheduler does,
the first thread might still be writing while the second one is coming along,
is already reading, and the result is totally undefined.
It might be anything from a crash,
what would be the least worst on case to a full-blown security breach,
when thread number one is writing sensitive information to a data location,
while thread two is still reading from it at
that location and maybe is now retrieving a user password.
That is why we will take a good look at data races
and also discuss some strategies for avoiding them.
One of the first strategies involves,
overwriting the copy constructor of a class to ensure
a proper deep copy of all data structures as performed.
The other strategy again involves the move semantics from the previous section.
But let us not get too ahead of
ourselves and start with the definition of data races first.
See you down below.